=head1 NAME

icsdroneng -  Interface between an xboard chess engine and an ICS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

icsdrone [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

icsdroneng acts as an interface between an ICS (Internet Chess Server) and
a chess engine supporting the XBoard/WinBoard protocol. Unlike XBoard/WinBoard
it does not use a graphical interface so it is suitable for use on
embedded systems.

UCI engines may be used through the polyglot adapter. 

icsdroneng started its life a fork of icsdrone by Henrik Gram.  It was 
originally developed for FICS (the Free Internet Chess Server) but 
currently ICC (the Internet Chess Club) works as well.

icsdroneng has the following new features.

    - Feedback on commands.
    - Builtin polyglot book support. 
    - Feedback on the current evaluation and principal variation 
      (through "whisper" or "kibitz" or the "proxyFeedback" option). 
    - "Daemon mode" (run in background).
    - PGN logging. 
    - Auto reconnection in case of network problems.
    - Support for resigning on behalf of the engine. 
    - Support for handling of draw offers.
    - Support for autojoining tourneys. 
    - Builtin support for using timeseal.
    - Optional "shortlog". E.g. for consulting via a webbrowser.
    - Interactive console with readline support and colors.
    - An ICS proxy.

When instructed via the "proxy" option, icsdroneng act as a proxy for the ICS
it is connected to. This is similar to using xboard with zippy 
but now the "GUI" (xboard/winboard) can be closed without terminating 
the engine. 

=head1 MANAGING ICSDRONENG

The managing options for icsdroneng are schematically described in the
following drawing

                                           
                                                                                V
                           console        xboard
                              A             A
                              |             | 
                              |          (owner)
                              |             | 
                              V             V
     xboard<--(proxy)-->icsdroneng<--(C)-->ics
                              A
                              |
                              |
                              |
                              V
                           engine
                             


=head1 OPTIONS

All options take an argument. In the case of boolean options this is on/off.

=over 4

=item B<-icsHost> (default: "freechess.org")

Hostname of the ICS server.

=item B<-icsPort> (default: 23)

Port of the ICS server.

=item B<-timeseal>

Path to timeseal binary.

=item B<-handle> (default: "guest") 

Login handle. 

=item B<-password> (default: "xxx") 

ICS password

=item B<-loginScript> 

Script with login data and commands.

=item B<-owner>
    
Specifies a ICS handle of a user which can send tell commands to icsdroneng.

=item B<-autoReconnect> (default: "on")

Autoreconnect to ICS on network failures.

=item B<-console> (default: "on")
    
Start up with console enabled. The console looks somewhat nicer when
readline support is compiled in.

=item B<-daemonize> (default: "off")

Go into background. This implies console off.

=item B<-feedback> (default: "off")

Send info about the eval and principal variation.

=item B<-feedbackOnlyFinal> (default: "on")

Give feedback info only before move.

=item B<-feedbackCommand> (default "whisper")

The command to use to send feedback to observers. Use "kibitz" if you want your
opponent to also see the feedback.

=item B<-proxyFeedback> (default: "off")

Make icsdroneng give PV feedback directly to the proxy
(i.e. without relying on kibitz/whisper).

=item B<-ownerQuiet> (default: "off") 

Send no tells to the owner about starting and finishing games.

=item B<-engineQuiet> (default: "off")

Do no pass on most engine commands to the ICS. Some engines are just
too noisy.

=item B<-program> (default: "gnuchess")
    
Command to start the engine. If the engine is an UCI engine then this
should be an appropriate polyglot command. 

=item B<-nice>

Run the engine at lower priority.

=item B<-searchDepth> (default: 0)

Specifies the maximum search depth for the engine. 0 means unlimited.

=item B<-secPerMove> (default: 0)

Specifies the maximum time to search for the engine. 0 means unlimited.

=item B<-easyMode> (default: "on")
    
Specifies if the engine thinks on the opponents time or not. 

=item B<-resign> (default: "on")

Specifies if icsdroneng will resign on behalf of the engine. 

=item B<-acceptDraw> (default: "on")

Specifies if icsdroneng will accept draw offers on behalf of the engine. 

=item B<-scoreForWhite>  (default: "off")

Specifies if the engine reports the score of white (like Crafty). If
the engine is Crafty then icsdroneng will turn this on automatically. 
This is important to handle resigns and draw offers correctly. 

=item B<-dontReuseEngine> (default: "on")

If true then icsdroneng will restart the engine after each game.

=item B<-book> 
    
Path to an opening book in polyglot format. 

=item B<-logFile> (default: "<handle>.log")

Path to the logfile. If the name ends in .gz and zlib support is compiled
in then the logfile will be compressed.

=item B<-logAppend> (default: "off")

Specifies if we should append to the logfile.

=item B<-logging> (default: "on")

Specifies if logging is enabled. Note that logfiles are very large so
on an embedded system you probably want to disable this. 

=item B<-pgnFile> (default: "<handle>.pgn")

Log games to this file.

Optionally redirect the game through a shell command by beginning the
file name with a '|'-character (pipe).
For example: -pgnFile "|process-game.py Data/games.db"

=item B<-pgnLogging> (default: "on")

Specifies if logging of games is enabled. 

=item B<-shortLogFile> (default: "<handle>.txt")

Log start/end of games as well as received tells to this file. 

=item B<-shortLogging> (default: "on")

Specifies if short logging is enabled.

=item B<-sendLogin>

Commands to send at login. Multiple commands can be separated by \n.

=item B<-sendGameStart> (default: "say this is <enginename>")

Commands to send at start of game. Multiple commands can be separated by \n.

=item B<-sendGameEnd> 

Commands to send at end of game. Multiple commands can be separated by \n.

=item B<-sendTimeOut> (default: "resume")

Commands to send when idle. Multiple commands can be separated by \n.
 
=item B<-limitRematches>  (default: 0)

After this number of rematches wait 60 seconds before accepting. 0
means disable.

=item B<-hardLimit> (default: 0)

After this number of rematches automatically decline the next match
offer from the same opponent. 0 means disable.

=item B<-issueRematch> (default: "off")

Send "rematch" at end of the game.

=item B<-acceptOnly> 

Accept only challenges from this user. 

=item B<-noplay>

Comma separated list of players to auto decline offers from (case 
sensitive). Note this is not the same as the ICS "noplay" list. 

=item B<-autoJoin> (default: "on")

Autojoin tourneys. Currently this does not work on ICC.

=item B<-proxy> (default: "off")

Proxy the ICS.

=item B<-proxyPort> (default: 5000)

The port to listen on.

=item B<-proxyHost> (default: "127.0.0.1")

The interface to listen on. This must be the numeric ip
address of the interface. The default ensures
that only connections from localhost are possible. 
To allow connections from anywhere use "0.0.0.0".
This is only recommended if you are behind a firewall
as icsdroneng is not designed for security. 
Note that even if you are only listening locally
there are still a number of options to connect remotely
such as the xboard "gateway" option or ssh tunneling.

=item B<-proxyLogin> (default "on")

If this is true, icsdroneng will display a login prompt
on the proxy. User/password are derived from
the -handle and -password arguments and from the
strings entered at the icsdrone login prompt.

=item B<-colorTell>

=item B<-colorAlert>

=item B<-colorDefault>

Some colors for use in the console when icsdroneng is compiled with readline support. 

=back

=head1 CONSOLE, PROXY AND TELL COMMANDS, SCRIPTS

While icsdroneng is running you can send commands to it via the console
or via the proxy and if you are the owner also via "tell". In addition commands 
can be put in scripts which can be loaded or specified as a 
login script (with the command line option "-loginScript").

If you use a login script the first two lines should be the username
and password.

The following commands are interpreted by icsdroneng.

    help       Give some rudimentary help 
    set        Set an option (see below)
    softquit   Quit at the end of this game
    hardquit   Quit now
    restart    Quit and reconnect if autoReconnect is enabled. Otherwise quit.
    options    List the settable options 
    coptions   List all options including those not settable at runtime.
    daemonize  Go into background
    load       Execute a script (for security reasons the name should end with .icsdrone)

Other commands (e.g. "draw", "seek", "match") will be forwarded to the ICS.
Unless they are prefixed by * in which case they will be sent to the engine. 

With the "set" command you can change some command line options at runtime.
This applies to the following options. 

    easymode
    searchdepth
    secpermove
    sendgameend
    sendgamestart 
    sendtimeout
    sendlogin
    limitrematches
    issuerematch
    hardlimit
    acceptonly 
    feedback 
    feedbackonlyfinal
    feedbackcommand
    proxyfeedback
    ownerquiet
    pgnlogging
    shortlogging
    noplay
    autojoin
    autoreconnect
    resign
    acceptdraw
    scoreforwhite
    colortell
    coloralert
    colordefault

In contrast to command line options, these options are not case sensitive. 

=head1 ADITIONAL REMARKS

It is important to always issue manual seeks. E.g. seek 1 0 m.  In
that way icsdroneng can perform checks before accepting an opponent
(like verifying the noplay option). This is especially important when
playing as a guest on FICS since in that case FICS does not know you are a
computer and will auto match seeks (annoying the hell out of people
who do not expect to get a computer opponent).  icsdroneng defends
against this but this will only work if you issue manual seeks. 

=head1 EXAMPLES

An example command line 

    icsdrone -owner RoboOwner -program "polyglot engine.ini"  -loginScript engine.script -timeseal ./timeseal.Linux -book performance.bin -daemonize on -proxy on

Here is an example login script

    RoboUser
    xxxx
    set sendgameend say thanks\nseek 2 12 m
    seek 2 12 m

A command line to make crafty play blitz without further intervention

   icsdrone -handle RoboUser -password xxx -program crafty -sendLogin "seek 2 12 m" -sendGameEnd "seek 2 12 m" -proxy on

an equivalent version

   icsdrone -handle RoboUser -password xxx -program crafty -sendLogin "seek 2 12 m\n set sendgameend seek 2 12 m" -proxy on

=head1 EXIT STATUS

icsdroneng returns 1 ("restart") if the autoReconnect option is off
and a network error occurs after a succesful login or a restart
command is executed.  In all other cases a value > 1 is returned.

=head1 AUTHORS

    Henrik Gram <henrik.gram@gmail.com>
    Michel Van den Bergh <michel.vandenbergh@uhasselt.be>    

=head1 SEE ALSO

polyglot(6)
